1. Intent

We want specified Free/Libre and Open Source Software ("FLOSS") to be
able to use the specified GPL-licensed XSD runtime library (libxsd) and
XSD generated code (collectively called the "Program") despite the fact
that not all FLOSS licenses are compatible with version 2 of the GNU
General Public License (the "GPL").

It is our intent to allow distribution of the entire Derivative Work
(including the Program) under one or more of the FLOSS licenses listed
in section 3 (section 2.a). It is also our intent to disallow simple
relicensing of the Program for the sole purpose of using it in
proprietary applications (section 2.b and 2.c). As an example, consider
two hypothetical scenarios:

 a) You created a program that uses the XSD generated code and the XSD
    runtime library to access information in XML instance documents.
    Your program performs useful computations based on this information
    (sections 2.b and 2.c are satisfied). You distribute your program,
    including the XSD generated code and the XSD runtime library under
    the BSD license and make it available at no charge to all third
    parties (section 2.a is satisfied). Later you (or someone else) may
    choose to base their proprietary application on your code since the
    BSD license does not prohibit it.

    This scenario falls under this FLOSS Exception.


 b) You created a library that uses the XSD generated code and the XSD
    runtime library to access information in XML instance documents. You
    did not add to the library any other useful code that uses the XSD
    generated code or the XSD runtime library (neither section 2.b nor
    2.c is satisfied). You distribute your library, including the XSD
    generated code and the XSD runtime library under the BSD license and
    make it available at no charge to all third parties (section 2.a
    is satisfied). Later you base your proprietary application on this
    library since the BSD license does not prohibit it.

    This scenario does not fall under this FLOSS Exception (neither
    section 2.b nor 2.c is satisfied). You created the library for the
    sole purpose of making the XSD generated code and the XSD runtime
    library available to your proprietary application.


2. Legal Terms and Conditions

As a special exception to the terms and conditions of version 2 of
the GPL you are free to distribute a verbatim copy of the Program
as part of the Derivative Work that is formed from the Program or
any part thereof and one or more works (each, a "FLOSS Work") as
long as you also meet all of these conditions:

  a) You must cause the Derivative Work that in whole or in part
     contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof,
     to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties
     under the terms of one or more of the licenses listed in
     section 3.

  b) The Derivative Work should contain one or more FLOSS Work that
     can be reasonably considered as derived from the Program or some
     part thereof.

  c) The Derivative Work should not contain any part of the Program
     that cannot be reasonably considered as a base of one or more
     FLOSS Work.


3. FLOSS License List

  a) Any license listed in the "GPL-Compatible Free Software Licenses"
     and the "GPL-Incompatible Free Software Licenses" sections of the
     License List as published by the Free Software Foundation (FSF):

     http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html


4. Definitions

Terms used, but not defined, herein shall have the meaning provided in
the GPL.

Derivative Work means a derivative work under copyright law.


5. Applicability

You may choose to redistribute a copy of the Program exclusively under
the terms of the GPL by removing the FLOSS Exception notice from that
copy of the Program.
